MAX THIRD-PARTY END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
By accessing or using the Mattel System you are personally agreeing to the following:
The Mattel Asset Exchange system (including past, present and future versions) (“Mattel System”) to which you are seeking access includes, among other things, confidential, proprietary, trade secret, and other highly sensitive information and materials of Mattel (defined below), including without limitation, Third Party Materials as defined below (collectively, the “Mattel Materials”). Because of this, Mattel strictly controls access to and use of the Mattel System, Mattel Materials and Third Party Materials. Access is limited to Mattel’s employees, and either (1) the employees of a vendor that provides services to Mattel, Inc., its subsidiaries or affiliates (collectively, “Mattel”) pursuant to a fully executed, written agreement in effect between such vendor and Mattel (“Services Agreement”), (hereinafter a “Vendor”) or (2) the employees of an authorized dealer of Mattel’s products (a “Dealer”). When you gain access to or use the Mattel System, you agree to the terms of this Access User License Agreement (this “Limited License”) – which is a legally binding contract.
1. Ownership of the Mattel System. The Mattel System and the Mattel Materials are owned by Mattel or its licensors. All right, title, and interest in and to the Mattel Materials available via the Mattel System is the property of Mattel or its licensors, and is protected by United States, Canadian and international copyright, trademark, patent, trade dress, and/or other proprietary rights and laws. As a condition of access to the Mattel System and the Mattel Materials, you agree that you will not challenge the validity, ownership or use of any intellectual property owned or claimed by Mattel associated with the Mattel Materials or the Mattel System.
2. Third Party Materials. Some Mattel Materials marked with a red border, or otherwise marked to indicate presence of Third Party Materials, include third party licensor (e.g., movie studio) (“Third Party Licensor(s)”) materials (“Third Party Materials”). Unless you are employed or engaged by a Vendor whose use of Third Party Materials is reviewed and approved in writing by Mattel (“Approved”) in accordance with a Services Agreement, in which case the terms and conditions of such approval will apply to you, you agree to obtain all required third party clearances, licenses, rights, and approvals regarding all uses of such materials, and fulfill all obligations required in connection therewith. You agree not to use Third Party Materials, or purport to permit the use of them, except as strictly so approved and licensed by those Third Party Licensors or Mattel in each instance of use. Click here for more on how to obtain such licenses and approvals. What is required may change so check each time you access or use any such materials.
3. Limited License to Use Mattel System and Mattel Materials. Mattel hereby grants to you a royalty-free, limited, revocable, non-exclusive, non-assignable, non-sublicensable, non-transferable, personal license, solely during the term of this Limited License, and solely for your job-related activities on behalf of your employer or principal (“Mattel Partner”) in providing services to Mattel as a Vendor, or to advertise, market or promote Mattel products while acting as a Dealer of Mattel products, (collectively, “Permitted Uses”) to: (a) access and use the Mattel System remotely over the Internet through web-based software consistent with the terms of this Limited License, and any applicable Additional Terms (defined below), and solely for such limited activities for the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you; and (b) use the Mattel Materials solely for the Permitted Uses consistent with the legitimate business purposes of Mattel or a Dealer, and in compliance with all applicable laws and the terms and conditions of this Limited License, including any Additional Terms. Any use of the Mattel Materials not expressly authorized by a Services Agreement and Approved consistent therewith, in the case of a Vendor, or to advertise market or promote Mattel products while acting as a Dealer, only as strictly approved and licensed by those Third Party Licensors, and in either case subject to any Mattel approvals or requirements as it may from time-to- time require as Additional Terms, is expressly prohibited. Access to the Mattel System does not in and of itself give you any rights, and your right to access the Mattel System does not modify a Services Agreement or any other agreement in effect between the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you and Mattel. In addition to the terms of this Limited License, Mattel may require special terms and conditions in connection with access or use of the Mattel System, and/or use of some or all of the Mattel Materials (“Additional Terms”) and this Limited License is subject to all such Additional Terms. You must proactively look for Additional Terms that may be posted on the Mattel System with respect to particular Mattel Materials. Mattel may change this Limited License and/or change or add Additional Terms prospectively by notice, and you agree that notice posted to the Mattel System (or to the e-mail address you provide Mattel) is sufficient notice and that continued access or use after such notice constitutes acceptance. Mattel may also terminate this Limited License in its entirety, or for some or all of the Mattel Materials immediately upon notice in the same manner(s). The license set forth in this Limited License does not grant you a license to use the Mattel Materials, or any other information or materials contained in the Mattel System, beyond the express limited manner set forth in this Limited License and any applicable Additional Terms. Any previously cleared rights, such as use rights, that may relate to the Mattel Materials may have expired prior to your access to the Mattel System and may not be relied upon, and you must access and download the applicable Mattel Materials for each new use, and comply with any of their applicable Additional Terms. This Limited License to the Mattel Materials does not include a sublicense to Third Party Materials, except to the extent included in Mattel Materials reviewed and Approved by Mattel in accordance with the review and approval process for a Vendor pursuant to the applicable Services Agreement, in which case the sublicense is subject to any terms and conditions imposed by Mattel and is revocable upon notice by Mattel. Otherwise, Third Party Materials must be independently cleared and licensed by you, or the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you, for each instance of use.

4. Restrictions on Your Use of the Mattel System and Mattel Materials.
(a) Limited Scope of Access and Use of the Mattel System. You may only access and use the portion of the Mattel System to which Mattel, in its sole discretion, deems that the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you should have access (“Mattel’s Partner Portion”) and only in accordance with the functionality provided in Mattel’s Partner Portion. You must not attempt to access or use any other Mattel system or any other portion of the Mattel System, other than the Mattel’s Partner’s Portion Approved for your Permitted Uses hereunder, and you must immediately notify the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you if you become aware of: (i) any access to or use of the Mattel System beyond the scope allowed in this Limited License; or (ii) any potential access to or use of the Mattel System beyond the scope allowed of you in this Limited License, whether by disclosure, exposure, or loss (for example, your loss of a laptop computer that includes the Password or User ID (both defined in Section 5)).
(b) Limited Scope of Rights to Use the Mattel Materials. Mattel Materials must be used only for purposes directly related to the Permitted Uses in strict compliance with this Limited License and all applicable Additional Terms as follows:
(i) If you are employed or engaged by a Vendor you may use the Mattel Materials, including Third Party Materials, as Approved by Mattel to provide services in accordance with a Services Agreement and the terms and conditions of such approval, in each instance of access and use; and
(ii) If you are employed or engaged by a Dealer, you may copy, crop, flip or shade the Mattel Materials to create derivative works that may be used to advertise, market and sell Mattel’s products on the internet and in print materials, provided, however, if you are employed or engaged by a Dealer, you must not publish, distribute, or make any other external use of the Mattel Materials, or derivative works thereof, that include Third Party
Licensor rights (which are identified on the Mattel System with a red border (or otherwise as including Third Party Materials)), without independently ensuring that you or the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you has acquired and cleared all necessary rights, and obtained all necessary Third Party Licensor approvals with respect to which you will comply, related to them, in each instance of access and use.
(c) Other Restrictions on Use of the Mattel System and Mattel Materials. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Limited License, and without limitation to any aforementioned restrictions, you must not do the following:
(i) use the Mattel System or the Mattel Materials to conduct any unlawful transactions and/or business or otherwise in any manner that violates any applicable law generally accepted code of conduct or voluntary/self-regulatory industry standard or guideline, or infringes Mattel’s or any third party’s rights;
(ii) use the Mattel System or the Mattel Materials for any purpose that is not directly related to the Permitted Uses;
(iii) use the Mattel Materials in a manner that disparages or reflects negatively on Mattel or its products, services or goodwill, or in Mattel’s judgment is inconsistent with Mattel’s brand image;
(iv) use the Mattel Materials in connection with any false, deceptive, misleading, unsubstantiated or unfair statement, claim, representation, endorsement or association made by you;
(v) use the Mattel Materials as part of a logo, corporate ID, trademark or service mark;
(vi) sublicense, resell or otherwise make the Mattel Materials available for downloading, use, access or distribution separately;
(vii) reproduce, copy, translate, modify, edit, adapt, create derivative works of, display, perform, publish, distribute, transmit, transfer, republish, modify, compile or decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, manipulate, tamper with, or delete all, or any portion of, the Mattel System or the Mattel Materials, except as explicitly provided hereunder (e.g., in Sections 3 and 4(b)), or as Approved.
(viii) allow unauthorized access to, or disclosure or copying of, any part of the Mattel System or any information or materials obtained from or through the Mattel System (including, without limitation, Mattel Materials);
(ix) remove or modify any notices, watermarks or other disclaimers, or interfere with, or circumvent or attempt to circumvent, any digital rights management tools or protections, that are present on or accompany the Mattel Materials;
(x) breach or attempt to breach the security of any software or data, or any network, servers, computers, or other hardware, on or relating to the Mattel System, or that of any other supplier or third party that is hosting or interfacing with any part of the Mattel System; or
(xi) use or distribute on, or with the Mattel System, any software or other tools or devices designed to compromise or otherwise negatively affect the operations, integrity, privacy or security of, or that harm or monitor, Mattel or the Mattel System.
5. System Access, Accounts and Security of Passwords and User IDs. You are responsible for the security and use of the password and user ID for the Mattel System (“Password” and “User ID”, respectively) provided to you by the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you and/or Mattel. You must keep the Mattel Materials and Mattel Confidential Information (defined below) reasonably secure, and you must not disclose or otherwise permit or enable access to the Password or User ID to any other person or entity or permit or enable any other person or entity to use the Password or User ID. You are responsible for any unauthorized access to or use of the Mattel System using your Password or User ID. In the event you suspect your user name or password has been compromised you agree to immediately to report that to MAXBusinessSupport@mattel.com.
6. Other Agreements and Policies Governing Your Access to and Use of the Mattel System and the Mattel Materials. Your use of the Mattel System is subject to any other Additional Terms, and policies that may be posted on or accessible through the Mattel System, which are incorporated into this Limited License by this reference, and any confidentiality, services, and other agreements between the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you and Mattel.
7. Mattel’s Confidential Information/and Data Practices.
(a) Restrictions on Use and Disclosure. Without limiting the terms of any other agreement you may have entered into, or between the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you and Mattel, regarding Mattel’s Confidential Information, you: (i) will not disclose Mattel’s Confidential Information to any third party, except as may be expressly authorized under this Limited License or otherwise by Mattel in writing; (ii) will use Mattel’s Confidential Information solely in furtherance of Mattel’s legitimate business purposes, pursuant to Mattel’s instruction, and consistent with your obligations to the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you, Mattel and Third Party Licensors; (iii) will use the same standard of care to keep Mattel’s Confidential Information confidential and secure that you use to protect Mattel’s Partner’s information of like importance, but no less than a reasonable degree of care; and (iv) will immediately notify Mattel in writing of any use or disclosure of Mattel’s Confidential Information in breach of this Limited License and will help regain and prevent further unauthorized use or disclosure of Mattel’s Confidential Information. Except as expressly set forth in the foregoing clause (ii), and Section 3 above, neither this Limited License nor your access to or use of the Mattel System grants you any rights, by license or otherwise, in or to any of Mattel’s Confidential Information, any Mattel Materials, or any other Mattel intellectual property or assets. As between you and Mattel, Mattel’s Confidential Information (and the Mattel System and all other information and materials contained within, available through, or relating to the Mattel System) is and will remain Mattel’s sole and exclusive property. This Limited License does not impose any obligation on Mattel to disclose any of Mattel’s Confidential Information to you.
(b) Return of Mattel’s Confidential Information. Upon the earlier of the written request of Mattel or Mattel’s Partner, and any termination of your right of access to or use of the Mattel System as set forth in Section 8(a), you will immediately return to Mattel all tangible items that are within your possession or control and contain or consist of Mattel’s Confidential Information (including any copies, summaries, extracts, and other forms thereof), and delete all electronic records or other intangible items that contain or consist of Mattel’s Confidential Information.
(c) Scope of Mattel’s Confidential Information. “Mattel’s Confidential Information”
means any information or materials that you are exposed to in connection with your access to or use of the Mattel System, as well as the purposes and fact of your access to or use of the Mattel System. Mattel’s Confidential Information includes any such information whether it is in written, visual, aural, electronic, or other form, and whether it is disclosed by Mattel or on Mattel’s behalf, and whether it is owned by Mattel or one of its licensees, licensors, or vendors. Mattel’s Confidential Information includes, without limitation: (i) the Password; (ii) the User ID; (iii) the Mattel System and the data, information, images, content, configurations, displays, concepts, and other materials contained within or available through the Mattel System (which include, among other things, the Mattel Materials); and (iv) all technology (including, without limitation, hardware, software, and documentation) used on or in connection with the Mattel System. Mattel’s Confidential Information includes all copies, summaries, and extracts of the foregoing. Mattel’s Confidential Information also includes any such information and materials of Mattel to which you may have been exposed prior to your execution of this Limited License. Mattel’s Confidential Information does not include information or materials that: (A) is in or enters the public domain through no act or omission of you; (B) you lawfully receive from a third party, that is not itself in breach of a confidentiality obligation to Mattel, without restriction on use or disclosure and without an expectation of confidentiality; (C) you knew prior to receiving Mattel’s Confidential Information and without restriction as to use or disclosure; or (D) you independently develop without access to, or use of, any of Mattel’s Confidential Information, as evidenced by written documentation.
(d) Mattel’s Monitoring and Data Practices. You agree that to provide you with access to the Mattel System and related services, Mattel will need to receive from you certain limited personal information, including your name, email address, User ID and Password and related contact information.  Such information may be transferred to Mattel operations in the United States or other countries as necessary to provide access to the Mattel System. You agree that the use of your Password and User ID may be monitored by Mattel from time to time. You further understand that Mattel may use the information you submit, including your personal information you fill in below, and data collected in connection with your use of the Mattel System for any uses permitted by applicable law, including without limitation (a) to contact you in connection with your use of the Mattel System, and (b) to track and document your use of the Mattel System.
8. Term; Termination; Effect of Termination.
(a) Term; Termination. The term of this Limited License will commence on the date that you initially access the Mattel System, and it will immediately and automatically terminate upon the earlier of: (a) any breach of this Limited License or any Additional Terms; (b) any termination of this Limited License or your access to or use of the Mattel System, which may be done by Mattel in its sole and exclusive discretion with or without notice for any reason or no reason; (c) any termination of the agreement between Mattel’s Partner and Mattel that contemplates or relates to Mattel’s Partner’s and your access to the Mattel System or relates to Mattel’s Confidential Information; (d) any termination of your authorization by Mattel’s Partner to access or use the Mattel System; and (e) any termination of your employment by Mattel’s Partner, or engagement by Mattel’s Partner, as applicable to your relationship with Mattel’s Partner. The forgoing termination is to be effective regardless of whether you may still have physical access to the Mattel System and will be without liability to Mattel. Notwithstanding the foregoing, failure to terminate in the event of breach by you is not a waiver by Mattel and you may not rely on any such failure to terminate after breach as a right or authorization to continue using the Mattel System or that termination will not occur after a subsequent breach.
(b) Effect of Termination. Upon any termination of this Limited License, you will immediately: (i) cease using Mattel’s Confidential Information, the Mattel System and the Mattel Materials, and (ii) return to Mattel all tangible items (including, without limitation, digital copies) that are within your possession or control and contain or consist of Mattel’s Confidential Information or other Mattel Materials (including any copies, summaries, extracts, and other forms thereof) and delete all electronic records or other intangible items that contain or consist of Mattel’s Confidential Information or other Mattel Materials. In any such event, you will not re-create any of Mattel’s Confidential Information. Sections
4(a) and (c) and 5 through and including 13 will survive any termination of this Limited License.
9. Remedies. You agree and acknowledge that any breach or anticipatory breach of this Limited License or Additional Terms by you, or any unauthorized use or disclosure of Mattel’s Confidential Information by you, will cause Mattel irreparable harm and significant damage, the degree of which will be difficult to ascertain and which is not capable of remedy by monetary damages alone. Accordingly, if you breach or threaten to breach this Limited License or any Additional Terms, then Mattel may seek and obtain, in addition to any other remedies available: (a) immediate injunctive relief, in any court of competent jurisdiction, without any requirement to post bond; and (b) its costs and expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees). Mattel will be entitled to any and all remedies available at law or in equity, which will be cumulative.
10. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES. YOU AGREE THAT THE USE OF THE MATTEL SYSTEM, THE MATTEL MATERIALS, AND MATTEL’S CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION (COLLECTIVELY, “MATTEL SERVICES”) IS AT YOUR OWN RISK. THE MATTEL SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS-IS” AND, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ARE PROVIDED WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, MATTEL DOES NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, COMPLETENESS, AVAILABILITY, SECURITY, COMPATIBILITY, OR NONINFRINGEMENT; OR THAT USE OF THE MATTEL SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, FREE OF VIRUSES AND OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS, ACCURATE, ERROR FREE, OR RELIABLE.
11. LIMITATION OF LIABILITIES. IN NO EVENT WILL MATTEL AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES, AFFILIATES, SUCCESSORS, AND ASSIGNS (COLLECTIVELY, THE “MATTEL PARTIES”) OR THIRD PARTY LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR OTHER DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOSS OF PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THE USE OF THE MATTEL SERVICES (INCLUDING ANY INFORMATION, PRODUCTS, OR SERVICES PROVIDED THEREIN), WHETHER BASED IN CONTRACT, TORT, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHER THEORY.
12. LIMITATION OF DAMAGES. CERTAIN APPLICABLE LAWS MAY NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF CERTAIN DAMAGES. IF THESE LAWS APPLY TO YOU, SOME OR ALL OF THE ABOVE DISCLAIMERS, EXCLUSIONS, OR LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU AND THE LIMITATIONS, EXCLUSIONS AND DISCLAIMERS IN THIS LIMITED LICENSE WILL APPLY TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY SUCH APPLICABLE LAW. IN NO EVENT WILL MATTEL’S TOTAL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ALL DAMAGES, LOSSES AND CAUSES OR ACTION WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE FOR ACCESSING OR PARTICIPATING IN ANY ACTIVITY RELATED TO THE USE OF THE MATTEL SYSTEM EXCEED THE GREATER OF: (A) THE AMOUNT PAID BY YOU TO MATTEL, IF ANY; OR (B) $50.
13. Indemnity of Mattel and Third Party Licensors. By entering into this Limited License and accessing the Mattel System, you agree, for yourself and on behalf of the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you, to defend (if requested), indemnify and hold harmless the Mattel Parties and the Third Party Licensors from and against any harm, damages, claims or cost and expenses (including attorneys’ fees and costs) arising out of or related to (a) any breach of or default under this Limited License or any Additional Terms; and any third party claims arising out of (i) use of the Third Party Materials; and (ii) any additional content or other materials you add to or associate with the Mattel Materials. If Mattel demands a defense hereunder, it will have the right to approve legal counsel, and may also employ counsel at its own expense with respect to any such claim and participate in the defense. You will obtain the indemnified party’s advance written approval prior to: (i) any settlement that imposes any executory obligation on any of the Mattel Parties or affects their intellectual property or other rights; (ii) any settlement that does not unconditionally release the Mattel Parties; or (iii) any binding admission made on behalf of any of the Mattel Parties.
14. Execution and Enforcement. This Limited License, and any applicable Additional Terms, is the entire agreement between you and Mattel with respect to its subject matter, and it supersedes all prior agreements or understandings regarding the Mattel System. To the extent other agreements between you and Mattel or between the Mattel Partner that employs or engages you and Mattel exist that address related issues (e.g., agency service agreements and dealer distribution agreements), with respect to you and the Mattel System and the Mattel Materials accessed through it, this Limited License and any Applicable Additional Terms will govern in the event of any conflict. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is held to be void, illegal, invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such finding shall not affect any of the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.  If any provision of this Agreement is so broad as to be unenforceable, such provisions shall be interpreted to be only so broad as is enforceable.  No failure or delay in exercising any right or remedy will operate as a waiver of any such (or any other) right or remedy. No provision in this Limited License may be modified or abrogated unless expressly agreed to in writing signed by the party against which the modification or abrogation is sought to be enforced (and in Mattel’s case only a Vice President or higher can bind Mattel). If at any time you believe that you have had any communications with Mattel that conflict with any of the provisions of this Limited License, then you must immediately send to Mattel’s General Counsel at 333 Continental Boulevard, El Segundo, CA 90245-5012 a written notice that describes the facts surrounding such communications. This Limited License binds and will inure to the benefit of Mattel and its successors and assigns. This Limited License is personal to you and you may not assign your rights, or delegate your duties, in whole or in part, except as Approved. In the event of any legal proceeding between you and Mattel relating to this Limited License, the prevailing party will be entitled to recover, in addition to any other relief awarded or granted, its costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees) incurred in any such proceeding. This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of California, without reference to conflicts of laws principles and you irrevocably consent to jurisdiction and venue in state and federal courts located in Los Angeles County, California.
//End EULA//

